# Host-associated micorbiomes

A key step towards rational microbiome engineering is the in silico sampling of realistic microbial communities that correspond to desired host phenotypes, and vice versa. This remains challenging due to a lack of generative models that simultaneously model compositions of host-associated microbiomes and host phenotypes. To that end, we present a machine learning model based on the consumer/resource (C/R) framework. In the model, variation in microbial ecosystem composition arises due to differences in the availability of effective resources (latent variables) while species’ resource preferences remain conserved. Variation in the same latent variables is used to model phenotypic variation across hosts. In silico microbiomes generated by our model accurately reproduce universal and dataset-specific statistics of bacterial communities. The model allows us to address two salient questions in microbiome design: (1) which host phenotypes maximally constrain the composition of the host-associated microbiome? and (2) what are plausible microbiome compositions corresponding to user-specified host phenotypes? Thus, our model aids the design and analysis of microbial communities associated with host phenotypes of interest.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data](#data)
- [Figures](#figures)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)

## Introduction

In this repository we have all the code and data that were used to analyze the data and produce all the figures in this [paper](https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.04.28.538625)

## Repository structure
